This folder contains example oxDNA input files for relaxing a structure exported from a DNA design tool and running a basic equlibrium sampling MD simulation.  There are three files here: two relaxation steps and the production run.

## 1. Monte-Carlo relax
The `input_relax_MC` file will run a Monte-Carlo simulation meant to resolve excluded volume clashes in the exported file.  For many structures this can be unecessary, however MD will not run if there are overlapping particles, so if you attempt to run the simulation and it immediatley explodes or if it was exported from Tiamat, this step can help reduce excluded volume clashes.

## 2. Molecular Dynamics relax
The `input_relax_MD` file will run a molecular dynamics simulation meant to relax structures from the strained state that they will be in from exporting to a simulation-ready initial configuration.  The important parameters here are the `max_backbone_force` and `thermostat` parameters.

The max backbone force bypasses the check of bond lengths that causes unrelaxed simulations to not start, and sets the provided number as the maximum force that the backbone is allowed to exert, which prevents particles that do gain significant kinetic energy from ripping the whole structure apart through backbone interactions.

The thermostat in this input file is set to Bussi, a modified Berendsen thermostat with the bussi_tau corresponding to the time constant, which is set very low to constantly rescale escaping particles and keep them in the structure.  If the structure explodes when running this input file, turn down the dt by a factor of 10 and run for a few 10<sup>4</sup> steps before turning up the speed and continuing the relaxation.

We additionally recommend using an exernal forces file to enforce relaxation to the expected configuration.  This file is automatically generated by the Tiamat converter found on TacoxDNA or can be generated after the MC relax step using the generate_force.py script found in this repository.  For most structures the potential energy will be between -1.45 and -1.5 when the structure is relaxed.

## 3. Molecular Dynamics production run
The `input_run` file is our default MD production run.  It will produce trajectory files with 2000 configurations (long enough apart to be well decorrelated in energy).  The thermostat used in this simulation is a modified Andersen thermostat.
